- [Instructor] Hi, and welcome back.
In this video, we've got
a small exercise for you.
And also, we're going to introduce
a few new things, of course.
We're going to create two methods.
One of them is going
to be who_do_you_know,
and the other one is gonna be ask_user.
So, the first thing we've introduced
in this video already is the pass keyword.
You remember me saying that after a colon,
the next line has to be
indented, and I wasn't lying.
It has to be indented, but we don't
have anything to put inside this method.
We don't have anything for this method
to do, so we put "pass," and that
essentially means do nothing.
Or just pass, basically, give up.
So, the first line is indented,
but it doesn't do anything.
Now, this who_do_you_know method
is going to ask the user for a list
of people they know, and then it's
going to split the string
that comes back into a list.
Remember, whenever we ask the user
for something using the input method,
that always comes back as a string.
So, we're gonna split
that string into a list,
and it's going to return in that list.
Okay, and the ask_user method
is going to ask user for their name,
see if their name is in the
list of people they know,
not their name, but our name, rather,
and then print out that
they know the person.
So, essentially the same as here,
but instead of having a predefined list
of people the user knows, we're gonna
ask the user for a list
of people they know.
I would now recommend pausing the video
and giving this a go as
far as you can take it.
You may not be able to do things
like split this string into a list,
but you can do a lot of other things.
I would recommend just giving it a go,
generally, whenever I
give you a programming
exercise, because by doing you're gonna
learn so much faster
than just by watching.
So, even if it is a bit of effort,
I would recommend getting Atom installed
or any other text editor and
giving the challenge a go.
And then pause the video and give it a go,
and then come back to it
once you have given it a go.
Okay, I'll assume that
you have given it a go.
So, the first thing we wanna do
is ask the user for a
list of people they know.
So, people is gonna be input, enter
the people you know, rather the names
of people you know, separated by commas.
That's important.
Separated by commas.
So, I would expect something like
John comma Rolf comma Anna
comma Drake, for example.
That's what the user will type.
Once we have that, we have a people list,
and that's gonna be something new.
People.split, and what that's gonna do,
it's gonna get the people string,
and it's gonna split it on the comma.
Then we're gonna create a
list, essentially, where
we're gonna have John,
Rolf, Anna, and Greg.
You see what's happening?
We're making each of the elements
into its own element in a list,
as opposed to in a string.
And then to return that list, you know,
just return people_list.
Then remove the pass, because it
doesn't make sense anymore.
So, this is the people we know.
Now let's ask the user for their name,
or for our name.
Enter a name of someone you know,
and then we're gonna see if their name
is in the list of people.
If person in, and here it is.
We could do one of two things.
People=who_do_you_know,
and what this'll do is it'll
execute who_do_you_know,
and ask the user for the names of people,
split them, and then return them,
and then assign that
return list to people.
Then we could do if person in people,
print("You know this person!")
However, we could also do without that,
and just put who_do_you_know here.
After all, what's gonna happen is we're
gonna run this method and calculate
the list of people, and then
we're just gonna iterate over that list.
It's only going to run the method once,
so this also makes sense, and it saves
some space, and it makes
things a bit more concise.
Of course, instead of
"You know this person!",
we can also do .format(person),
as we know from above.
Let's comma this out,
and then run this again.
And what do you think's gonna
happen when we run this code?
It's a bit of a trick question,
so give it a bit of thought.
Okay, let's go for it.
Nothing.
Nothing happens, and of course,
we have looked at this before.
Nothing happens, 'cause we
never actually ran the method.
We defined the method and we created it,
but we never actually ran it.
What we wanna do is ask_user, this
is the main sort of method because it
essentially runs the
other method, as well,
and then we can run this again.
So, enter a name of someone you know.
This is line 21, here.
I'm gonna put in Rolf, and then
we're gonna put in the names of people
we know separated by commas, so just
John, Rolf, Anna, and Greg.
And then it says that I know Rolf.
Great.
What happens if we run it again,
but now we do something that a user
could absolutely do?
Do something like John, Rolf, Anna, Greg.
What do you think is gonna
happen when I press end?
We've got some spaces in there now.
Nothing happens.
We do not know Rolf anymore, because Rolf
is no longer Rolf, it is space Rolf.
That came out more funny than
I thought it was gonna be.
Yeah, this Rolf is now
an astronaut, evidently.
So, we've gotta space
first, we're dividing
on the comma, so John
doesn't have a space.
Oh, I messed up this.
John, John, Rolf, Anna, Greg.
And it says that I know
John, but remember,
when I used Rolf, I didn't know Rolf
because it had a space in front of it.
So, that's a bit of a problem, really,
because we don't have any logic
in our programme to remove spaces.
That's something that
we probably should do,
remove the spaces so that we can
be, essentially, more accurate.
So, let's do that.
We're gonna say, people_without_spaces,
it's gonna be an empty list.
Then we're gonna say for person in people.
Sorry, people_list.
So, for each person in the people list,
we're gonna say
people_without_spaces.append(person.strip()).
This is essentially like stripping,
but it only strips the white space.
So, if the spaces, tabs, new lines,
things like that all get removed,
and then we are appending the stripped
string into people_without_spaces.
So, then we're gonna copy that,
and return that instead.
Okay, let's run that again.
Enter the name of someone you know,
Rolf, hmm, Ro.f,
John, Ro.l, Anna, and
Greg, and then I know Ro.f.
So, this is how we remove white space
from the beginning and end of a string,
and then we calculated each of the people
and added them to people_without_spaces.
We used a four loop to do this.
Now, there are better ways of doing this,
and we're gonna look at those ways
later on in the course, as well.
There are more efficient ways,
there are nicer ways, there
are more concise ways.
We're gonna look at those, as well,
as we move on, but for now this is
everything that we wanted to cover
in this video, and we've
looked at a few things
like bringing things together, really.
The input method, the
split method was new,
returning values, creating a few
different methods and interact in between
them, and things like that.
So, you can progress from here.
Now you're at the stage where
you can start doing things.
If you didn't have more experience
with Python, you do now, and you can start
creating small programmes
that print things out
and get user input and multiply things
and divide them and make
calculations, things like that.
I would recommend that you play around
with things and code and practise.
All that is really gonna
help your learning.
By doing, by programming,
that's the best way
to learn, so I would definitely
recommend that you do that.
Without further ado, I'll
move on to the next video.
So, I'll see you there.